[Music]
all right let's talk about nvidia's
new rtx 3060 this is probably their
best-selling gpu this year
it's kind of like the best valued
graphics card for gaming
and there is a lot to talk about now i'm
just going through the boring stuff
first like the benchmarks and
performance there's just
cooler stuff to talk about in a bit so
this performs
as expected it's good but it's not
surprising
right it performs similar to an rtx 2070
not as good as a 2070 super and not as
good as a 360 ti
but if you can get your hands on one at
the msrp of 329
it's a fairly priced gpu but just the
presence of this thing like the
mere existence of yet another skew that
you can potentially
have stock on and be able to purchase
that's a good thing
interestingly it does have 12 gigs of
ram which is more than the 36 eti which
is more than a 3080
but the reason why it has 12 gigs of ram
is because well
i'm assuming that when amd kind of
pre-announced their upcoming 6700
gpu that thing was supposed to come with
12 gigs of ram so
nvidia being nvidia they put 12 gigs of
ram into this card as well to compete
so is the artex 3060 a good gpu for sure
like it has great 1080p performance and
it doesn't cost a crazy amount of money
i personally would have liked this thing
to be 2.99 like just under 300 bucks but
i think it's very fairly priced
at 329. now the thing is if you go into
a store and you
have the option somehow of being able to
purchase a 360 ti
or a regular 3060 and this would cost
you 70
more i'd go for the 360 ti
it's a little bit more but i just feel
like you get better kind of long-term
use
on this gpu in terms of just gaming
performance as well as a nicer looking
design but the truth is
stock is a very real issue so having
access to this at all
is awesome okay i want to move on to the
more interesting topic
a few days ago nvidia announced that
this gpu
the rtx 3060 would be software crippled
so that it had
half the hash rate that it's actually
capable of this in reference to
its mining speed its mining capabilities
and it's only affecting
the rtx 36e not any of the previously
released rtx 30 series gpus
just specifically the rtx 3060 and the
reasoning behind it at least the public
pr statement
is that they're doing it for gamers to
alleviate some of the supply issues that
they've had
by removing the mining capabilities or
the appeal of this gpu
to miners right because if you reduce
the hash rate on this thing
then for miners they're just they're not
interested in this thing it doesn't do
what
crypto miners want to do with a rtx
gpu so yeah i tested it and it's
definitely crippled it mines ethereum
like a gtx 1060.
it's terrible and nvidia's also stated
that they're going to be making
these mining specific gps they call them
cmps
and these are devices without any kind
of display outputs they're just
built specifically to mine now they've
gone on record saying that the
production of these cmps
won't impact the production of their
geforce line right their rtx and gtx
cards
supposedly won't be reduced because of
the presence of the cmp line
maybe it's true like maybe they're just
selling off components that they
wouldn't be able to sell
in their gaming products but it's been
controversial like to [ __ ] your
brand new rtx 3060 like this has been
a little bit weird to say the least
there are some people who are
understandably suspicious or even upset
by this right linus has an interesting
video on it i'll link it down below
but me personally i think this is a good
thing i think that the interest
of nvidia as a company like trying to
make money aligns
nicely with the interest of the consumer
to get access to these cards right
the people who get screwed are the
crypto miners they're i mean look at the
hash rates if you know anything about
crypto mining
these numbers are not impressive these
are not particularly efficient
and unless these cards are really cheap
i don't think they're going to sell well
especially because the resale on this
stuff is going to be terrible
so by doing this out of the gate by
halfing the hash rate of rtx 3060
and by introducing this terrible lineup
of mining cards
i think the consumers just win the
consumers being gamers
right now miners know right on day one
that this is not a great card for mining
so
if you're interested in picking this up
as a miner
you're not gonna maybe there's gonna be
software tweaks you can you know adjust
the bios and use custom drivers
but most of these cards are going to go
to gamers instead of crypto miners and
even for nvidia a company that's intent
on making as much money as possible
they like that they would rather sell a
gaming gpu to
a gamer than a miner because a gamer
will hold onto the gpu for several years
make use of the tech that
nvidia spends a lot of money researching
whereas miners
they sell the gpu after a year or two
and it goes on the used market and
affects
the pricing of nvidia's whole gpu
structure
it's it's a thing so nvidia keeping
their their main demographic as gamers
and satisfying the needs of gamers
it's a good thing it's not just like you
know any gpu that they sell is good and
whoever buys it no nvidia would way
rather have people
that are gamers purchase their gpus for
sure it's better
economic value for them and it also
works out for gamers as well
now i want to just state one thing just
because nvidia likes money and they do
and they're trying to make a ton of it
it doesn't mean they don't care about
gamers because the truth is gamers make
them money they care about gamers
because
they make them a lot of money so
there we have it that's just my thoughts
on this whole thing okay that is the rtx
3060 video i feel like
regardless of this whole hash rate
nerf it's still gonna be super hard to
get like extraordinarily difficult
to get the 30 60. you've got supply
chain issues on multiple components
you have bots that are buying up and
reselling these things it sucks
i know okay you know what i'll give mine
away
if you're looking for an rtx 3060 from
evga
i will give this one away just comment
below with
with your favorite color it's all you
need to do
okay for real hope you guys enjoyed this
video thumbs if you liked it subs if you
loved it
see you guys next time